Hi, everyone. Welcome back to Openlanguage. This is Lisa
And this is Adam
Today, we have an A2 lesson called "my hometown"
That's right, because i have a lot of Chiness friends, and when i meet them, I always say, "Where are you from?"
Sometimes they say, "I'm from China."
yeah,but what's your hometown
Right,we know you're from China, We want to know your hometown
Yeah, is it Beijing?
Is it Yichun?
Yeah,that's right,So we'll talk about our hometowns and how to use a very useful word "the." 
In today's dialogue,we have two friends,Amber and lan, and they are talking about Amber's hometown
But before we listen to that, let's listen to today's vocabulary
let's do that one more time.But this time repeat after us 
All right. Now let's listen to that dialogue

Amber, where are you from?
I'm from Canada.My hometown is Vancouver
Oh,what's it like?
It's nice. It has beautiful parks and delicious food.
Is the city big?
No,the city is small. The strees are also quiet and clean
I see. What are the best places to visit?
Hmm...the best palces to visit are the beaches and museums.

Okay.and we ara back.In our dialogue.our two friends Amber and lan talking,and lan asks...
Amber, where are you from?
So Amber says...
I'm from Canada.My hometown is Vancouver.
So we talked about this earlier. Your hometown is where are you from
It's where you grow up.So a town is a very small city,but we don't say home city,do we?
No. if you live in a city, you still say hometown
Right,a hometown can be big or samll. For example,maybe your hometown is Bejing or a samll town in the countryside.
But it looks like Amber's hometown is Vancouver here in Canada.
So lan asks her, "Oh,what's it like?"
This is a great question. We use this when we want to know more about something
It's like, "Can your tell me more?" But it's more natural
For example, what's Shanghai like? Is it hot? Is it busy?
You can use it for people and things, too,like what's your boss like? We actually have a lesson with that name.
Or what's your new job like?
That's right. You can use this all the time. But what is Vancouver like?
Well, Amber says, "It's nice. It has beautiful parks and delicious food"
Better than delicious parks
Yes, okay, So these are beautiful parks.
Ah, beautiful. Let's talk about the spelling of beautiful. 
It's long
It is long and we also say beautiful
Yeah, the /t/ sounds like a /d/. Beautiful.
This means something looks really nice.
It's pretty
Well, it's really pretty, right? Beautiful is a little stronger.
Right. so maybe you live in a beautiful house or have a beautuful garden.
Or a beautiful girlfirend.
Or maybe she's a beauty. That's the noun.
Ah, right. Beauty.
But we have another word here, delicious. And it mean taste good.
Right, like this cake is delicious.
Or that looks delicious. Just looking at it makes me hungry.
This word has a C. DELICIOUS. But we don't really say
Yeah, it's delicious. So the C sounds like
Delicious 
But what about the city? lan asks, "Is the city big"
The city. So this is our grammar point for today,how to use "the" It's a very useful word, but we're gonna talk about that at the end
Okay, sounds good. Let's go back to the dialogue. Amber says, "No, the city is small. The streets are also quiet and clean"
All good things here, but lan wants to know more. He asks her...
I see. What are the best places to visit?
And Amber says...
Hmm...the best places to visit are the beachers and museums.
Yes,be careful here. The spelling is BEACHES.The E and A together make a long sound
THat's right,/i:/.Beaches
Like peaches
Yeah,the fruit. They're almost spelt the same way,too.
I like peaches and beaches
Yes,and beaches are buy the sea. You sit on the sand in the sun, and you can go swimming at the beaches
Right,or you can just relax at the beaches.
Beaches are perfect for the summer.
So are peaches.
Yes, yes, those too.But if it's cold, mayber you want to go to the museum
Ah, I love museums. These are places with a lot of old things
I think that's a really good way to say it. Old things like paintings, clothes, and well, cups and plates
Sure, even moneey, Just things people used in the past. You can also have art museums or science museums.
Yeah,any kind of museum. Just be careful, the S museum sounds like a Z. So it sounds like museum.
And that is what Amber recommends, the beaches and museums in Vancouver.
Right. So now that we've talked about the vocabulary, let's look at the grammar
Yes, so we're talking about "the" the city, the park, the beache
So many "thes"
A lot of students use "the" too much
beause it's hard to use. So we're going to talk about when you can use it
Right. and also when you should not use it. Both things are very important.
Yes.for user.Okay, so let's look at some examples. I like cities. I like the ciry.
Sounds pretty close. So what's the difference here?
Well, the first one means i like all cities. I like big cities, small cities, ugly cities,cities with beaches, cities with on beaches.All of them
Right, but when we say i like city, we're talking about one city. Maybe it's Vancouver. Mayber it's Beijing
Yeah, how about another example.
Well, beaches. If i say l like beaches, it means i like all beaches
Yeah, I like the beaches in Beijing.
There are no beaches in Beijing
Okay,well, then i like the museums in Beijing
So "the" just helps us Understand what the other person is talking about, what city, what beaches
Yeah, okay, let's give one more example where we should or shouldn't use "the"
Here's one. I like parks but i don's like the parks in New York
What? They have great parks.
Lisa. it's just an example
Okay, all right. But that is it for our grammar today. We still have more example. so please look at grammar section later. Now, let's listen to that dialogue one more time

We're back. Like Amber, I am from Vancouver, and i have to agree the beaches are great, the parks are beautiful, and the food is really delicious. But our museum, well, I think that the museum in Beijing are better. What about you, Adam?
Well, my hometown is a very small place. No beaches, no museums, So i just say i'm from Toronto. Toronto is a big and it also  has beautiful parks and delicious food.
Yeah, i've never been to Toronto. What about the streets?
Ah, the streets are clean
But enough about us. What about your guys? What's your hometown like?
And What are the best places to visit?
Leave a comment or ask a question, and we look forward to reading them.
Thanks for listening
Bye for now
