Hi everyone! Welcome bakc to OpenLanguage. This is connor
And this is Lisa
Today we have A2 lesson called "what's your boss like?"
So we hava a conversation between two friends talking about their boss.
Yes. In this lesson, we will learn how to use adjectives to talk about prople.
Yeah, like "nice" and "smart"
Exactly
But before we listen to the conversation, let's listen to today's vocabulary
boss pretty smart honest already successful rich
Ok, we'll say that one more time, but this time repert after us.
Ok.Now let's listen to that dialogue
Hay Joseph, what's your boss like? Is he nice?
Yeah, he's pretty nice. He's also smart and honest
That's good. How old is your boss?
I think he's 32 years old
Wow. and he already has his own company?
yeah. he's a successful and rich guy
Sounds like it
Ok. and we're back. The dialogue begins with Sharon asking Joseph a question She say...
"Hey Joseph. What's your boss like? Is he nice?"
This is a great question. We use this to ask about the person
Yes. So i can ask Connor "Hey Connor What's your dad like"
Oh my dad is readlly old
Ok. What about your brother? what's your brother like
My borther is really tall
Ok. But we can use this for other things. too. We can use it for plances, like "what's Beijing like? Is it busy? Is it a big city?"
Right, exactly. now what about the word:boss. Who is our boss, Lisa?
Our boss is Jenny
Right. We love Jenny. Now, a boss is the top person at a company
Yeah. Your boss can say "Do this! Do that"
Oh, that boss sounds bossy. Jenny isn't bossy, is she?
No. No. she's not. OK, but let's give some more examples of "boss"
Ok, How about Steve Jobs? He was the boss of Apple
He was big boss.
Right, because there are many bosses at a company
Yes. Or Jack Ma. He is the boss of Alibaba
Yes, yes. That is right. And now what about answer to Sharon's question?
What is Joseph's boss like
He says, "He's pretty nice. He's also smat and honest"
Ok. so let's look at "pretty nice". "Pretty" is an adverb, right ?
Yes. And it comes before the adjective "nice"
So what's the meaning of "pretty nice"? First you have...
"Very nice." That's the best
Oh. "very nice". What is next?
Next is "pertty nice"
Ok. So not very nice, just pretty nice
Yeah. And what's next after that
Nice
Yeah. nice Ok. so "pretty nice" is in the middle 
it's the middle one . For example, it's pretty cold today.
Yeah. Or "the party was pretty fun."
But not very fun.
Yeah. Or "My job is pretty hard"
Yeah, thet's right. OK, well Joseph says his boss is also smart and honest
So "smart." This means you know a lot of things. If you are a smart student, then you know all the answers
All the answers. Maybe you learned the word "clever." But In American English, we say "smart." We only say "clever" sometimes
Yes. OK, but let's look at the next word here:honest. The word is spelled: H-O-N-E-S-T. But we say /a:nist/ because the "h" has no sound
That's right. Let's try that
honest
Honest means a person doesn't lie
Right. So for exmpale, Lisa . I don't like your clothes
You're very honest. Well, you have food on your face
Yor're honest. OK, so honest can be a good thing right?
Yeah, beceuse you want to work with honest people. They tell you how to be better
How to  be better and that's good. And that's what Sharon says but she also has a question
Right. She asks, "how old is your boss"
That's right. And Joseph says, "I think he's 32 years old"
Yes. And Sharon says, "Wow! And he already has his own company?"
Already. This is before the verb or at the end of a sentence. It means earyl or fast
Yeah. For example, I'm going to sleep. It's 8 p.m.
8 p.m? Already ? It's so early!
Yeah. Or maybe if I eat my food really fast, my friend might say, "Wow! Yor aleary finished your food?"
My friend say that so many times. For another example, Would you lime some coffee. Lisa?
NO thank you. I aleady drank coffee.
Ok. But here he syas "alreay" beceuse the boss is only 32 years old.
Yes. That's very early to hava a company. So because of that he is a successful and rich guy
So this is our grammar for today, but we'll talk about that soon. First, Let's talk about these teo words: successful and rich
Successful means that you did something very well.
If you try to be doctor, you will work really herd and maybe become a famous doctor. You are a successful doctor.
Yes. So there are  many successful people and companies. Apple is very successful company.
Brad Pitt is a pretty successful actor
No, he's very successful actor
Yes, he is. let's talk about how to say this word
Let's say it slowly first. successful
And one more time successful
ok very good. Now when you're successful, you're usually rich
Yeah, And Joseph's boss is a rich guy. This means he has a lot of money
Maybe he has an expensive cat and a big house
Are you rich?
No. But one day i will be rich
I hope so too. But back to the dialogue.
Sharon ends this by saying "sounds like it"
Sounds like it. This is a great phrase. It means "I think so"
Yeah. he sounds like a pretty great guy.
Yeah. Sounds like it
OK. But that is thd end our dialogue for today. So let's lool at the grammar
Right. Fot the grammar, we are talk about using adjectives before nouns
Yeah. so earlier we said, "he's a successful and rich guy."
"A" is first. Next is the adjective. What's the adjective
Successful
Right. And next is "guy"
A successful guy
One more time: a + adjective. then  noun
A successful guy. Here are some more example
He's smart boss
Or he's a nice boss
Yeah. And we can put that together and say "He's smart and nice boss"
He's smart and nice boss. let's give some example of other things
I saw an interesting movie
Or "I read a really boring book"
Yeah. So you could sue it for good things or bad things, too. Ok
those are some great example bu we even more example in our grammar section.
So please go ahead and check that out
Now let's listen to our dialogue one more time
All right, Let's do that
Hey Joseph, what's your boss like? Is he nice?
Yeah. He's pretty nice, he's also smart and honest
That good, how old is you boss
I think he's 32 years old
Wow. and he aleady has his own company?
Yeah, he's a sueecssful and rich guy.
Sounds like it
Ok, we're back. So we talked a lot about Joseph's boss today and it sounds like he's pretty nice guy
Yeah, he sounds awesome, he's smart, he's honest and he's successful
Yes. Like our boss:Jenny, she's pretty nice. too.
No. She's very nice
Yes. she is. But what about you guys?
what's your boss like
Yeah. Please write a comment or ask a queston. Try to use tosay's vocabulary
All right. And until then, we'll talk to you later
Yeah. see you then
